
= h1 =
asdf asdf asdf
==h2==
asdf asdf asdf
===h3===
asdf asdf asdf
{{{

text 
text
text 

[] [] [] []
== == 
==== ====
}}}

====h4====

[http://www.com.foo.com no text]

[http://www.com.foo.com text after but not before] text text text

text text text [http://www.com.foo.com text before but not aftert]

text text [http://www.com.foo.com text before and after] text text

text [http://www.com.foo.com many urls in a row with comma], [http://www.com.foo.com url with comma], and [http://www.com.foo.com last url] text


 # one item
 # two item
 # three item


asdflkj
lkj
lkj

 * one item
 * two item
 * three item 

sdfasdf asdfasdf asdfasdf



URL
[http://foo.com foo]
[FooWIKIPage foo wiki page]

== *`Bold_Code`* love and rocket==


<p>
CDI has merit on its own outside of the EJB and JSF space. This
tutorial only covers CDI. Repeat there is no JSF 2 or EJB 3.1 in this tutorial.
There are plenty of articles and tutorials that cover using CDI as part of a larger [http://download.oracle.com/javaee/6/tutorial/doc/gjbnr.html JEE 6 application].
This tutorial is not that. This tutorial series is CDI and only CDI.
</p>

<p>
CDI has merit on its own outside of the EJB and JSF space. This
tutorial only covers CDI. Repeat there is no JSF 2 or EJB 3.1 in this tutorial.
There are plenty of articles and tutorials that cover using CDI as part of a larger [http://download.oracle.com/javaee/6/tutorial/doc/gjbnr.html JEE 6] application.
This tutorial is not that. This tutorial series is CDI and only CDI.
[http://download.com can handle a period at the end].
</p>




code bold
*`single`*
*`double`* *`double`*
*`with_comma`*, *`with_apsotrophe_s`*'s

code
`single`
`double` `double`
`with_comma`, `with_apsotrophe_s`'s

bold
*single*
*double* *double*
*with_comma*, *with_apsotrophe_s*'s


*`@{Whisky}tango/rango/dango?,.!;'"`**`@{Whisky}tango/rango/dango?,.!;'"`*




